support openfaas && prometheus as first extended workload (#481)
oam-dev/rudr: docs/tutorials/deploy_openfaas_workload.md

> # OpenFaaS extended workload

Reviewer: We should reach an agreement on Extended Workload or extended workload.

Author: Yeah, I think we should use Extended Workload in title

## Install

In this tutorial, we assume you have already successfully installed rudr. If not, you could see the [Installation Guide](../setup/install.md) to get help.

After rudr installed, we still need to install [OpenFaaS Operator](https://github.com/openfaas-incubator/openfaas-operator), that will be the real workload executor.

The installation steps for OpenFaaS Operator are almost the same with the guides in the [OpenFaaS Operator README docs](https://github.com/openfaas-incubator/openfaas-operator#deploy-openfaas-with-the-operator).

> The only difference you should care about is that the functionNames should use the same namespace you have installed rudr. The namespace is `default` in rudr's helm chart, if you haven't manually changed it, we should use `default` here.    

Reviewer: These three paragraphs above are verbose as you have listed detailed installation steps below. 

I'd suggest skip them, and add comments in the installation steps.

Author: ok

### Install OpenFaaS Operator with Helm v3

```shell script
# create OpenFaaS namespaces
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openfaas/faas-netes/master/namespaces.yml

# add OpenFaaS Helm repo
helm repo add openfaas https://openfaas.github.io/faas-netes/

# generate a random password
PASSWORD=$(head -c 12 /dev/urandom | shasum| cut -d' ' -f1)

kubectl -n openfaas create secret generic basic-auth \
--from-literal=basic-auth-user=admin \
--from-literal=basic-auth-password="$PASSWORD"

# get latest chart version
helm repo update

> # install with basic auth enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# install OpenFaaS operator with basic auth enabled
# functionNamespace should be changed to the namespace in which Rudr is installed, in our case, it's default namespace
```

Finally you could verify the installation by checking the pods.

```shell script
$ kubectl -n openfaas get pods
NAME                                 READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
alertmanager-67dd8444ff-nn4k8        1/1     Running   0          4m42s
basic-auth-plugin-6f5878475f-ln2k2   1/1     Running   0          4m42s
faas-idler-5c87fbcbdf-tsscj          1/1     Running   2          4m42s
gateway-559fb6f5b8-bsdzq             2/2     Running   0          4m42s
nats-79ffb4bb68-vgzct                1/1     Running   0          4m42s
prometheus-74bc4d6884-rlj2f          1/1     Running   0          4m42s
queue-worker-55fd5749d-7q678         1/1     Running   1          4m42s
```

Fetch your public IP or NodePort via `kubectl get svc -n openfaas gateway-external -o wide`.

If using a remote cluster, you can port-forward the gateway to your local machine:

```shell script
kubectl port-forward -n openfaas svc/gateway 31112:8080 &
```

Then you could visit the OpenFaaS web by `http://127.0.0.1:31112`.

User name is `admin`, and you could get the password by:

```shell script
$ echo $PASSWORD
1b26c16c5af2343ee82be46635c0b44f7457a176
```

## Create Component with OpenFaaS Workload

> Now rudr support three main field of the OpenFaaS workload, they are `image`, `handler` and `environment`. An example is like below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An OpenFaaS workload example is below:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha1
kind: ComponentSchematic
metadata:
  name: openfaas
spec:
  workloadType: openfaas.com/v1alpha2.Function
  osType: linux
  parameters:
    - name: image
      type: string
      default: alexellis/gofast023
    - name: handler
      type: string
      default: ""
    - name: write_debug
      type: string
      default: "true"
  workloadSettings:
    - name: image
      type: string
      description: docker image name of this function
      fromParam: image
      value: alexellis/gofast023
      required: true
    - name: handler
      type: string
      description: entrypoint of your function, eg. node main.js
      required: false
      fromParam: handler
    - name: environment
      type: array
      description: environments of functions
      value:
        - name: write_debug
          type: string
          value: "true"
          fromParam: write_debug
```

> Firstly, we must set the workloadType as `openfaas.com/v1alpha2.Function`, then rudr will understand this component should work with OpenFaaS workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that, the workload type is `openfaas.com/v1alpha2.Function`.
```

> Then, we should fill the workloadSettings properly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explanation of OpenFaaS workload configurations in detail:
```

1. `image`: image is the docker image name of function, the type of image is string, this field is always required for OpenFaaS workload. You could also make this field read from parameters.
2. `handler`: handler is the entry point of your function, the type is string, this field is optional, and also could read from parameters.
3. `environment`: the type of environment is array, and you should write the environment list in the field value. Each environment could be read from parameters.

> ## Create Application Configuration to use the Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create Application Configuration to instantiate the Component
```

> After create the component, we should create an application configuration to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we should create an Application Configuration to instantiate the OpenFaaS Component.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationConfiguration
metadata:
  name: openfaas
spec:
  components:
    - componentName: openfaas
      instanceName: gofast
      parameterValues:
        - name: image
          value: functions/nodeinfo
        - name: handler
          value: "node main.js"
        - name: write_debug
          value: "false"
```

> Yes, just set the `parameterValues` to override parameters in component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that we could  use `parameterValues` to override parameters in the previous OpenFaaS Component.
```

> We have write these two example yaml files in [openfaasapp.yaml](../../examples/openfaasapp.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Check the sample YAML files above in [openfaasapp.yaml](../../examples/openfaasapp.yaml).
```

We could deploy it by:

```shell script
$ kubectl apply -f examples/openfaasapp.yaml
componentschematic.core.oam.dev/openfaas configured
applicationconfiguration.core.oam.dev/openfaas created
``` 

Then you could find functions have been created:

```shell script
$ kubectl get functions
NAME       AGE
nodeinfo   27s
```

You could also visit the function deployed:

```shell script
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:31112/function/nodeinfo
Hostname: nodeinfo-86b679f76f-sgkbb

Platform: linux
Arch: x64
CPU count: 2
Uptime: 796748
```

## Apply trait

> Manual Scaler trait could also be applied to OpenFaaS workload. Just add this trait like what to do to core workload types like below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manual Scaler trait could also be applied to OpenFaaS workload like below:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationConfiguration
metadata:
  name: openfaas
spec:
  components:
    - componentName: openfaas
      instanceName: nodeinfo
      parameterValues:
        - name: image
          value: functions/nodeinfo
        - name: handler
          value: "node main.js"
        - name: write_debug
          value: "false"
      traits:
        - name: manual-scaler
          parameterValues:
            - name: replicaCount
              value: 2
```

After change the Application Configuration yaml file, apply it.

```
$ kubeclt apply -f examples/openfaasapp.yaml
componentschematic.core.oam.dev/openfaas unchanged
applicationconfiguration.core.oam.dev/openfaas configured
```

Then we could see the replica of the function has changed.

```shell script
$ kubectl get functions nodeinfo -o yaml
apiVersion: openfaas.com/v1alpha2
kind: Function
metadata:
  name: nodeinfo
  namespace: default
spec:
  environment:
    write_debug: "false"
  handler: node main.js
  image: functions/nodeinfo
  name: nodeinfo
  replicas: 2
```

> If you want to change the replicas, just change the application configuration yaml and apply it again.

Reviewer: Should continue to add an example about how to scale. Don't be lazy :-)

Reviewer: In real world practices, the OpenFaaS `Component` is expected to be defined by Devs, while `ApplicationConfiguration` and manual-scaler `Trait` be managed by App Ops. You could check further practices guideline in [roles and responsibilities](https://github.com/oam-dev/spec/blob/master/2.overview_and_terminology.md#roles-and-responsibilities) explanation of OAM spec.

Author: Cool, I will add it

# OpenFaaS Extended Workload

## Install

In this tutorial, we assume you have already successfully installed Rudr. If not, you could see the [Installation Guide](../setup/install.md) to get help.

### Install OpenFaaS Operator with Helm v3

After Rudr was installed, we need to install [OpenFaaS Operator](https://github.com/openfaas-incubator/openfaas-operator), that will be the real workload executor.

> ```shell script

Reviewer 2: We recommend downstream use our CLI to prevent overhead and maintenance issues.

k3sup app install openfaas --helm3

☝️

You'll also want the flag for the operator so run --help to find out.

Reviewer: Does k3sup work with any K8s distribution?

Author: I think this work could be done in another PR, including how to install `k3sup`.

Reviewer 2: Yes indeed it does and it should be in this PR

Reviewer 2: so many people blindly copy and paste the very detailed installation instructions for the project and then we change them there is too much churn

Author: OK，I'll change it

Author: By the way, I copy/paste the instructions here: https://github.com/openfaas-incubator/openfaas-operator#deploy-openfaas-with-the-operator, it didn't use k3sup.

Author: As I tried, Using `k3sup` install openfaas is a little hard, as network connecting with github in China is a little slow, so it always breakdown.

1. `curl -sLS https://get.k3sup.dev | sh` this command didn't use CDN, it directly download from GitHub release which make it even impossible to download. So I download them directly from release page of GitHub .
2. `k3sup app install openfaas --helm3` this command didn't use my local helm, instead, it download helm 3.1, which need network and breakdown again.

So I hope to keep the instructions as it is in this PR.

faas-idler-5c87fbcbdf-tsscj          1/1     Running   2          4m42s
gateway-559fb6f5b8-bsdzq             2/2     Running   0          4m42s
nats-79ffb4bb68-vgzct                1/1     Running   0          4m42s
prometheus-74bc4d6884-rlj2f          1/1     Running   0          4m42s
queue-worker-55fd5749d-7q678         1/1     Running   1          4m42s
```

Fetch your public IP or NodePort via `kubectl get svc -n openfaas gateway-external -o wide`.

If using a remote cluster, you can port-forward the gateway to your local machine:

```shell script
kubectl port-forward -n openfaas svc/gateway 31112:8080 &
```

Then you could visit the OpenFaaS web by `http://127.0.0.1:31112`.

User name is `admin`, and you could get the password by:

```shell script
$ echo $PASSWORD
1b26c16c5af2343ee82be46635c0b44f7457a176
```

## Create Component with OpenFaaS Workload

An OpenFaaS workload example is like below:

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha1
kind: ComponentSchematic
metadata:
  name: openfaas
spec:
  workloadType: openfaas.com/v1alpha2.Function
  osType: linux
  parameters:
    - name: image
      type: string

>       default: alexellis/gofast023

Reviewer 2: I recommend using this which is newer https://github.com/alexellis/echo-fn

Author: do you mean using this image? `alexellisuk/go-echo:0.2.2`

  handler: node main.js
  image: functions/nodeinfo
  name: nodeinfo
  replicas: 2
```

If you want to change the replicas to `3`, just change the application configuration yaml.

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationConfiguration
metadata:
  name: openfaas
spec:
  components:
    - componentName: openfaas
      instanceName: nodeinfo
      parameterValues:
        - name: image
          value: functions/nodeinfo
        - name: handler
          value: "node main.js"
        - name: write_debug
          value: "false"
      traits:
        - name: manual-scaler
          parameterValues:
            - name: replicaCount
              value: 3
```

Apply it again.

```
$ kubeclt apply -f examples/openfaasapp.yaml
componentschematic.core.oam.dev/openfaas unchanged
applicationconfiguration.core.oam.dev/openfaas configured
```

Then you could see the `replicas` field has been changed.

```shell script
$ kubectl get functions nodeinfo -o yaml
apiVersion: openfaas.com/v1alpha2
kind: Function
metadata:
  name: nodeinfo
  namespace: default
spec:
  environment:
    write_debug: "false"
  handler: node main.js
  image: functions/nodeinfo
  name: nodeinfo

>   replicas: 3

Reviewer 2: We will be deprecating this value please use proper scaling labels instead. Set min scale to control replicas 

https://docs.openfaas.com/architecture/autoscaling/

Author: sure, thanks!
